# PNEUMONIA-AND-COVID-19-DETECTION-USING-CONVOLUTIONAL-NEURAL-NETWORK-CNN-
Pneumonia is a widely occurring severe form of acute respiratory disease that is caused due to infectious agents with high attack rates among individuals that belong to age groups of either of the extreme ends of the lifespan of an average human being. These infectious agents may be viral, fungal or bacterial and the lungs react to the infiltration of these foreign microorganisms by an inflammatory response which causes the bronchioles and alveoli to get filled with liquid. This in turn causes difficulty in respiration for the affected individual. In the case of children under 5 years of age, pneumonia is responsible for over 15% deaths recorded globally, with 920,000 deaths in 2015 alone. In the same year, the US witnessed over 500,000 cases of emergency admissions in hospitals due to pneumonia with 50,000 casualties reported which puts the disease among the top 10 causes of deaths in the US. In Pakistan Estimated number of pneumonia-related deaths in children under five, in 2018 is 58000.
Coronavirus illness 2019 is an infectious disease caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) coronavirus, which first appeared in Wuhan, China, in December 2019. This disease, which is quickly spreading over the globe, has a high morbidity and fatality rate. The coronavirus mainly affects the respiratory system, causing pneumonia. The disease has a wide clinical spectrum, from asymptomatic to fatal. Initial symptoms are fever, weakness, cough, headache, sore throat, and dyspnea may develop in the following days . Finally, it can cause septic shock, acute respiratory distress syndrome, and death, especially in critically ill patients with compromised immune systems and comorbidities. A corona virus has infected more than 36,087,836 people and 1,055,387 Deaths since December 2019. In Pakistan, from 3 January 2020, there have been 1,579,245 confirmed cases of COVID-19 with 30,649 deaths, reported to WHO.
The most commonly sought diagnostic technique for all forms of pneumonia involves studying the increased opacity in regions of the lungs as shown by the chest radiograph, or chest X-ray (CXR).  The actual leader diagnosis test of Covid-19 is the Reverse transcription Polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), result times and cost of these tests are high, so other fast and accessible diagnostic tools are needed.
In recent years artificial intelligence applications have been used in areas, such as the diagnosis of COVID-19 and Pneumonia, the prediction of its epidemiological course, and the determination of treatment methods. With artificial intelligence applications, early diagnosis of this disease can be provided, reducing the workload of health workers and supporting health services. It can also contribute to global crisis management when the patient population increases. In addition, it can reduce the economic damage of the epidemic. 
The medical field has witnessed lots of breakthroughs in better diagnosis of diseases through machine learning. We use the principles of deep learning, which is a branch of machine learning by employing convolutional neural networks (CNN) trained on normal and pneumonia positive CXR images to correctly identify whether or not a new CXR fed into the network is pneumonia positive when in the field for diagnostic purposes.
